SOURCE: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/BILLS-119hr7300ih/html/BILLS-119hr7300ih.htm
FETCHED BY: tools/amicus_pipeline.py fetch bill


[Congressional Bills 119th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7300 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






119th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7300

 To promote the integrity and improve the administration of elections 
              for Federal office, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 30, 2026

Mr. Steil (for himself, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Carey, 
Mr. Tiffany, Mr. Van Orden, Mr. Begich, Mrs. Bice, Mr. Tony Gonzales of 
  Texas, Mr. Bresnahan, Mr. Fong, Mr. Edwards, Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. 
 Bilirakis, Mr. Hern of Oklahoma, Mr. Patronis, Mrs. Kim, Mr. Bean of 
Florida, Mr. Hamadeh of Arizona, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Rose, Mr. Gooden, Mr. 
 Mackenzie, Mr. Allen, and Mr. Pfluger) introduced the following bill; 
  which was referred to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
  addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, the 
Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Intelligence (Permanent Select), for 
a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To promote the integrity and improve the administration of elections 
              for Federal office, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Make Elections Great Again Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of Contents.
                      TITLE I--ELECTION INTEGRITY

               Subtitle A--Requiring Photo ID for Voting

Sec. 101. Requiring voters to provide photo identification.
    Subtitle B--Voter Registration and List Maintenance Requirements

Sec. 111. Repeal of requirements with respect to administration of 
                            voter registration.
Sec. 112. General requirements for administration of voter 
                            registration.
Sec. 113. Requirements with respect to removal of ineligible voters 
                            from official voter list.
Sec. 114. Computerized statewide voter registration list requirements.
Sec. 115. Requirements for applicants who register by mail.
Sec. 116. Civil enforcement and private right of action.
Sec. 117. Election Assistance Commission guidance.
Sec. 118. Inapplicability of Paperwork Reduction Act.
Sec. 119. Duty of Secretary of Homeland Security to notify election 
                            officials of naturalization.
Sec. 120. Rule of construction regarding provisional ballots.
Sec. 121. Rule of construction regarding effect on State exemptions 
                            from other Federal laws.
Sec. 122. Requiring applicants for motor vehicle driver's licenses in 
                            new state to indicate whether state serves 
                            as residence for voter registration 
                            purposes.
Sec. 123. Definitions.
    Subtitle C--Information Sharing Agreements With Attorney General

Sec. 131. Information sharing agreements with Attorney General.
                     Subtitle D--Election Security

Sec. 141. Indication of citizenship on driver's licenses and 
                            identification cards.
Sec. 142. Requirement to notify State election officials of individuals 
                            recused from jury service on grounds of 
                            noncitizenship.
Sec. 143. Reports to Congress on foreign and domestic threats to 
                            elections.
Sec. 144. Preservation of election records.
Sec. 145. Definitions.
     Subtitle E--Prohibition on Federal Agency Political Activities

Sec. 151. Prohibiting political activities in Federal agencies.
                   TITLE II--ELECTION ADMINISTRATION

           Subtitle A--Improving Administration of Elections

Sec. 201. Use of HAVA funds for post-election audits of results.
                    Subtitle B--Treatment of Ballots

Sec. 211. Requiring paper ballots.
Sec. 212. Limitation on possession of mail-in ballots.
Sec. 213. Prohibiting States from using ranked choice voting in general 
                            elections for Federal office.
Sec. 214. Abolishing universal vote by mail.
Sec. 215. Barcode tracking for mail-in ballots.
Sec. 216. Receipt, processing, and counting of absentee and mail-in 
                            ballots.

                      TITLE I--ELECTION INTEGRITY

               Subtitle A--Requiring Photo ID for Voting

SEC. 101. REQUIRING VOTERS TO PROVIDE PHOTO IDENTIFICATION.

    (a) Requirement to Provide Photo Identification as Condition of 
Casting Ballot.--
            (1) In general.--Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 
        2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
        section 303 the following new section:

``SEC. 303A. PHOTO IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) Provision of Identification Required as Condition of Casting 
Ballot.--
            ``(1) Individuals voting in person.--
                    ``(A) Requirement to provide identification.--
                Notwithstanding any other provision of law and except 
                as provided in subparagraph (B), the appropriate State 
                or local election official may not provide a ballot for 
                an election for Federal office to an individual who 
                desires to vote in person unless the individual 
                presents to the official a valid physical photo 
                identification.
                    ``(B) Availability of provisional ballot.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If an individual does 
                        not present the identification required under 
                        subparagraph (A), the individual shall be 
                        permitted to cast a provisional ballot with 
                        respect to the election under section 302(a), 
                        except that the appropriate State or local 
                        election official may not make a determination 
                        under section 302(a)(4) that the individual is 
                        eligible under State law to vote in the 
                        election unless, not later than 3 days after 
                        casting the provisional ballot, the individual 
                        presents to the official--
                                    ``(I) the identification required 
                                under subparagraph (A); or
                                    ``(II) an affidavit developed and 
                                made available to the individual by the 
                                State attesting that the individual 
                                does not possess the identification 
                                required under subparagraph (A) because 
                                the individual has a religious 
                                objection to being photographed.
                            ``(ii) No effect on other provisional 
                        balloting rules.--Nothing in clause (i) may be 
                        construed to apply to the casting of a 
                        provisional ballot pursuant to section 302(a) 
                        or any State law for reasons other than the 
                        failure to present the identification required 
                        under subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) Individuals voting other than in person.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law and except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the appropriate State or local election official 
                may not accept any ballot for an election for Federal 
                office provided by an individual who votes other than 
                in person unless the individual submits with the 
                ballot--
                            ``(i) a copy of a valid photo 
                        identification; or
                            ``(ii) the last four digits of the 
                        individual's Social Security number and an 
                        affidavit developed and made available to the 
                        individual by the State attesting that the 
                        individual is unable to obtain a copy of a 
                        valid photo identification after making 
                        reasonable efforts to obtain such a copy.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subparagraph (A) does 
                        not apply with respect to a ballot provided 
                        by--
                                    ``(I) an absent uniformed services 
                                voter who, by reason of active duty or 
                                service, is absent from the United 
                                States on the date of the election 
                                involved; or
                                    ``(II) an individual provided the 
                                right to vote otherwise than in person 
                                under section 3(b)(2)(B)(ii) of the 
                                Voting Accessibility for the Elderly 
                                and Handicapped Act (52 U.S.C. 
                                20102(b)(2)(B)(ii)).
                            ``(ii) Absent uniformed services voter 
                        defined.--In this subparagraph, the term 
                        `absent uniformed services voter' has the 
                        meaning given such term in section 107(1) of 
                        the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee 
                        Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20310(1)), other than an 
                        individual described in section 107(1)(C) of 
                        such Act.
    ``(b) Providing Public Access to Digital Imaging Devices.--With 
respect to each State, the appropriate State or local government 
official of the State shall ensure, to the extent practicable, public 
access to a digital imaging device, which shall include a printer, 
copier, image scanner, or multifunction machine, at State and local 
government buildings in the State, including courts, libraries, and 
police stations, for the purpose of allowing individuals to use such a 
device at no cost to the individual to make a copy of a valid photo 
identification.
    ``(c) Valid Photo Identifications Described.--For purposes of this 
section, a `valid photo identification' means, with respect to an 
individual who seeks to vote in a State, any of the following:
            ``(1) A valid State-issued motor vehicle driver's license 
        that includes a photo of the individual and an expiration date.
            ``(2) A valid State-issued identification card that 
        includes a photo of the individual and an expiration date.
            ``(3) A valid United States passport for the individual.
            ``(4) A valid military identification for the individual.
            ``(5) A valid identification document issued by a Tribal 
        government that includes a photo of the individual and an 
        expiration date.
            ``(6) Any other form of government-issued identification 
        that the State may specify as a valid photo identification for 
        purposes of this subsection, excluding identification cards 
        provided by an educational institution.
    ``(d) Notification of Identification Requirement to Applicants for 
Voter Registration.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each State shall ensure that, at the 
        time an individual applies to register to vote in elections for 
        Federal office in the State, the appropriate State or local 
        election official notifies the individual of the photo 
        identification requirements of this section.
            ``(2) Special rule for individuals applying to register to 
        vote online.--Each State shall ensure that, in the case of an 
        individual who applies to register to vote in elections for 
        Federal office in the State online, the online voter 
        registration system notifies the individual of the photo 
        identification requirements of this section before the 
        individual completes the online registration process.
    ``(e) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
elections for Federal office held in 2027 or any succeeding year.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents of such Act 
        is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 303 
        the following new item:

``Sec. 303A. Photo identification requirements.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment Relating to Voluntary Guidance by Election 
Assistance Commission.--Section 311(b) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21101(b)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) in the case of the recommendations with respect to 
        section 303A, October 1, 2025.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment Relating to Enforcement.--Section 401 of 
such Act (52 U.S.C. 21111) is amended by striking ``sections 301, 302, 
303, and 304'' and inserting ``subtitle A of title III''.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall apply with respect to elections for Federal office held 
in 2027 or any succeeding year.

    Subtitle B--Voter Registration and List Maintenance Requirements

SEC. 111. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT TO ADMINISTRATION OF 
              VOTER REGISTRATION.

    (a) Repeal of Existing Requirements.--
            (1) National voter registration act of 1993.--Section 8 of 
        the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20507) 
        is repealed.
            (2) Help america vote act of 2002.--
                    (A) Repeal.--Except as provided under subparagraph 
                (B), section 303 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
                (52 U.S.C. 21083) is repealed.
                    (B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) does not apply 
                with respect to section 303(a)(5)(C) of such Act.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The National Voter Registration Act of 
1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 5(c)(2)(D)(i), by striking ``section 8(a)(5) 
        (A) and (B)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
        section 112(a)(6) of the Make Elections Great Again Act'';
            (2) in section 6(d) (52 U.S.C. 20505(d))--
                    (A) by striking ``section 8(a)(2)'' and inserting 
                ``section 112(a)(2) of the Make Elections Great Again 
                Act''; and
                    (B) by striking ``section 8(d)'' and inserting 
                ``section 113(c) of the Make Elections Great Again 
                Act''; and
            (3) by amending section 9 to read as follows:

``SEC. 9. FEDERAL COORDINATION AND REGULATIONS.

    ``The Election Assistance Commission--
            ``(1) in consultation with the chief State election 
        official of each State, shall prescribe such regulations as are 
        necessary to carry out paragraphs (2) and (3);
            ``(2) in consultation with the chief State election 
        official of each State, shall develop a mail voter registration 
        application form for elections for Federal office;
            ``(3) not later than June 30 of each odd-numbered year, 
        shall submit to the Congress a report assessing the impact of 
        this Act on the administration of elections for Federal office 
        during the preceding 2-year period and including 
        recommendations for improvements in Federal and State 
        procedures, forms, and other matters affected by this Act; and
            ``(4) shall provide information to the States with respect 
        to the responsibilities of the States under this Act.''.

SEC. 112. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATION OF VOTER 
              REGISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--In the administration of voter registration for 
elections for Federal office, each State shall--
            (1) ensure that any eligible applicant is registered to 
        vote in an election if the applicant's voter registration form 
        is authenticated by the chief State election official of the 
        State and--
                    (A) in the case of registration with a motor 
                vehicle application under section 5 of the National 
                Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20504), if 
                the applicant submits the valid voter registration form 
                and required documentary proof described in paragraph 
                (5) to the appropriate State motor vehicle authority 
                not later than the lesser of 30 days, or the period 
                provided by State law, before the date of the election 
                in the case of registration with a motor vehicle 
                application under section 5 of such Act;
                    (B) in the case of registration by mail under 
                section 6 of the National Voter Registration Act of 
                1993 (52 U.S.C. 20505), if the valid voter registration 
                form and required documentary proof described in 
                paragraph (5) of the applicant are postmarked not later 
                than the lesser of 30 days, or the period provided by 
                State law, before the date of the election;
                    (C) in the case of registration at a voter 
                registration agency, if the valid voter registration 
                form and required documentary proof described in 
                paragraph (5) of the applicant are accepted at the 
                voter registration agency not later than the lesser of 
                30 days, or the period provided by State law, before 
                the date of the election; and
                    (D) in any other case, if the valid voter 
                registration form and required documentary proof 
                described in paragraph (5) of the applicant are 
                received by the appropriate State election official not 
                later than the lesser of 30 days, or the period 
                provided by State law, before the date of the election;
            (2) require the appropriate State election official to send 
        notice to each applicant of the disposition of the application;
            (3) provide that the name of a registrant may not be 
        removed from the official list of eligible voters except 
        pursuant to a reason described in section 113(a)(1);
            (4) take such affirmative steps as are necessary to remove 
        ineligible voters pursuant to the requirements under section 
        113;
            (5) ensure that the State does not accept and process an 
        application to register to vote in an election for Federal 
        office unless the applicant satisfies the eligibility 
        requirements as described in subsection (c)(1), including with 
        respect to the presentation of documentary proof of United 
        States citizenship;
            (6) inform applicants under sections 5, 6, and 7 of the 
        National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20504, 
        20505, and 20506) of--
                    (A) voter eligibility requirements; and
                    (B) penalties provided by law for submission of a 
                false voter registration application; and
            (7) ensure that the identity of the voter registration 
        agency through which any particular registrant is registered is 
        not disclosed to the public.
    (b) Confirmation of Voter Registration.--Any State program or 
activity to protect the integrity of the electoral process by ensuring 
the maintenance of an accurate and current voter registration roll for 
elections for Federal office--
            (1) shall be uniform, nondiscriminatory, and in compliance 
        with the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.); 
        and
            (2) shall not result in the removal of the name of any 
        person from the official list of voters registered to vote in 
        an election for Federal office by reason of the person's 
        failure to vote, except as otherwise provided under subsections 
        (a)(2) and (d) of section 113.
    (c) Verification of Voter Registration Information.--
            (1) Requiring provision of certain information by 
        applicants.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
                application for voter registration for an election for 
                Federal office, including an application using the mail 
                voter registration form developed under section 6 of 
                the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 
                20505), may not be accepted or processed by a State 
                unless the application includes documentary proof of 
                United States citizenship and--
                            (i) the last 4 digits of the applicant's 
                        social security number; and
                            (ii) a current and valid driver's license 
                        or other documentary proof of residence in the 
                        State.
                    (B) Special rule for applicants without social 
                security number.--If an applicant for voter 
                registration for an election for Federal office has not 
                been issued a social security number or a current and 
                valid driver's license, the State shall assign the 
                applicant a number which will serve to identify the 
                applicant for voter registration purposes. To the 
                extent that the State has a computerized list in effect 
                pursuant to section 114 and the list assigns unique 
                identifying numbers to registrants, the number assigned 
                under this clause shall be the unique identifying 
                number assigned under the list.
                    (C) Determination of validity of numbers 
                provided.--The State shall determine whether the 
                information provided by an individual is sufficient to 
                meet the requirements of this paragraph, in accordance 
                with State law.
            (2) Requirements for state officials.--To the extent 
        required to verify the accuracy of the information provided on 
        applications for voter registration and to receive such 
        pertinent information and data as is necessary to ascertain the 
        eligibility of applicants to register to vote and maintain 
        voter eligibility records--
                    (A) the chief State election official and the 
                official responsible for the State motor vehicle 
                authority of a State shall enter into an agreement to 
                match information in the database of the statewide 
                voter registration system with information in the 
                database of the motor vehicle authority;
                    (B) the official responsible for the State motor 
                vehicle authority shall enter into an agreement with 
                the Commissioner of Social Security under section 
                205(r)(8) of the Social Security Act;
                    (C) the chief State election official of each State 
                shall enter into an agreement with the Attorney General 
                to promptly transmit and receive data regarding felony 
                convictions and incarcerations; and
                    (D) the chief State election official of each State 
                shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary for 
                Homeland Security to promptly transmit and receive 
                records and data pertaining to citizenship, 
                naturalization, and applications for citizenship.
            (3) Special rule for certain states.--In the case of a 
        State which is permitted to use social security numbers, and 
        provides for the use of social security numbers, on 
        applications for voter registration, in accordance with section 
        7 of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a note), the 
        provisions of this subsection shall be optional.
    (d) Permitted Use of Last 4 Digits of Social Security Numbers.--The 
last 4 digits of a social security number described in subsection 
(c)(1)(A)(i) shall not be considered to be a social security number for 
purposes of section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a note).
    (e) Additional Processes in Certain Cases With Respect to Proof of 
Citizenship.--
            (1) Process for those without documentary proof.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to any relevant guidance 
                adopted by the Election Assistance Commission, each 
                State shall establish a process under which an 
                applicant who cannot provide documentary proof of 
                United States citizenship under subsection (c)(1)(A) 
                may, if the applicant signs an attestation under 
                penalty of perjury that the applicant is a citizen of 
                the United States and eligible to vote in elections for 
                Federal office, submit such other evidence to the 
                appropriate State or local official demonstrating that 
                the applicant is a citizen of the United States and 
                such official shall make a determination as to whether 
                the applicant has sufficiently established United 
                States citizenship for purposes of registering to vote 
                in elections for Federal office in the State.
                    (B) Affidavit requirement.--If a State or local 
                official makes a determination under subparagraph (A) 
                that an applicant has sufficiently established United 
                States citizenship for purposes of registering to vote 
                in elections for Federal office in the State, such 
                determination shall be accompanied by an affidavit 
                developed under subparagraph (C) signed by the official 
                swearing or affirming the applicant sufficiently 
                established United States citizenship for purposes of 
                registering to vote.
                    (C) Development of affidavit by the election 
                assistance commission.--The Election Assistance 
                Commission shall develop a uniform affidavit for use by 
                State and local officials under subparagraph (B), which 
                shall--
                            (i) include an explanation of the minimum 
                        standards required for a State or local 
                        official to register an applicant who cannot 
                        provide documentary proof of United States 
                        citizenship to vote in elections for Federal 
                        office in the State; and
                            (ii) require the official to explain the 
                        basis for registering such applicant to vote in 
                        such elections.
            (2) Process in case of certain discrepancies in 
        documentation.--Subject to any relevant guidance adopted by the 
        Election Assistance Commission, each State shall establish a 
        process under which an applicant can provide such additional 
        documentation to the appropriate election official of the State 
        as may be necessary to establish that the applicant is a 
        citizen of the United States in the event of a discrepancy with 
        respect to the applicant's documentary proof of United States 
        citizenship.
            (3) Availability of information.--
                    (A) In general.--At the request of a State election 
                official (including a request related to a process 
                established by a State under paragraph (1) or (2)), any 
                head of a Federal department or agency possessing 
                information relevant to determining the eligibility of 
                an individual to vote in elections for Federal office 
                shall, not later than 24 hours after receipt of such 
                request, provide the official with such information as 
                may be necessary to enable the official to verify that 
                an applicant for voter registration in elections for 
                Federal office held in the State or a registrant on the 
                official list of eligible voters in elections for 
                Federal office held in the State is a citizen of the 
                United States, which shall include providing the 
                official with such batched information as may be 
                requested by the official.
                    (B) Use of save system.--The Secretary of Homeland 
                Security may respond to a request received under 
                subparagraph (A) by using the system for the 
                verification of immigration status under the applicable 
                provisions of section 1137 of the Social Security Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 1320b-7), as established pursuant to section 
                121(c) of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 
                1986 (Public Law 99-603).
                    (C) Sharing of information.--The heads of Federal 
                departments and agencies shall share information with 
                each other with respect to an individual who is the 
                subject of a request received under subparagraph (A) in 
                order to enable them to respond to the request.
                    (D) Investigation for purposes of removal.--The 
                Secretary of Homeland Security shall conduct an 
                investigation to determine whether to initiate removal 
                proceedings under section 239 of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1229) if it is determined 
                pursuant to subparagraph (A) or (B) that an alien (as 
                such term is defined in section 101 of the Immigration 
                and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101)) is unlawfully 
                registered to vote in elections for Federal office.
                    (E) Prohibiting fees.--The head of a Federal 
                department or agency may not charge a fee for 
                responding to a State's request under subparagraph (A).
            (4) Requirement in cases of name discrepancies in 
        documentation.--Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection 
        (c)(1)(A), a State shall accept and process an application to 
        register to vote in an election for Federal office if the 
        applicant--
                    (A) presents with the application documentation 
                that would constitute documentary proof of United 
                States citizenship, except that the name on the 
                documentation is not the name of the applicant; and
                    (B) provides, through a process established by the 
                State (which shall be subject to any relevant guidance 
                adopted by the Election Assistance Commission)--
                            (i) additional documentation as necessary 
                        to establish that the name on the documentation 
                        is a previous name of the applicant; or
                            (ii) an affidavit signed by the applicant 
                        attesting that the name on the documentation is 
                        a previous name of the applicant.
    (f) Conforming Amendments to Ensure Only Citizens Are Registered to 
Vote in Elections for Federal Office.--
            (1) Registration with application for motor vehicle 
        driver's license.--Section 5 of the National Voter Registration 
        Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20504) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Each State 
                motor vehicle driver's license application'' and 
                inserting ``Subject to the requirements under section 
                112(c) of the Make Elections Great Again Act, each 
                State motor vehicle driver's license application'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``Each State 
                shall include'' and inserting ``Subject to the 
                requirements under section 112(c) of the Make Elections 
                Great Again Act, each State shall include'';
                    (C) in subsection (c)(2)(B)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at 
                        the end;
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by adding ``and'' at 
                        the end; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new clause:
                    ``(iii) verify that the applicant is a citizen of 
                the United States;'';
                    (D) in subsection (c)(2)(C)(i), by striking 
                ``(including citizenship)'' and inserting ``, including 
                the requirement that the applicant provides documentary 
                proof of United States citizenship''; and
                    (E) in subsection (c)(2)(D)(iii), by striking ``; 
                and'' and inserting ``, other than as evidence in a 
                criminal proceeding or immigration proceeding brought 
                against an applicant who knowingly attempts to register 
                to vote and knowingly makes a false declaration under 
                penalty of perjury that the applicant meets the 
                eligibility requirements to register to vote in an 
                election for Federal office; and''.
            (2) Requiring documentary proof of united states 
        citizenship with national mail voter registration form.--
        Section 6 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20505) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Each State shall accept 
                        and use'' and inserting ``Subject to the 
                        requirements under section 112(c) of the Make 
                        Elections Great Again Act, each State shall 
                        accept and use''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Federal Election 
                        Commission'' and inserting ``Election 
                        Assistance Commission'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the 
                following: ``The chief State election official of a 
                State shall take such steps as may be necessary to 
                ensure that residents of the State are aware of the 
                requirement to provide documentary proof of United 
                States citizenship to register to vote in elections for 
                Federal office in the State.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B) by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
            ``(C) the person did not provide documentary proof of 
        United States citizenship when registering to vote.''.
            (3) Requirements for voter registration agencies.--Section 
        7 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20506) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (4)(A), by adding at the 
                        end the following new clause:
            ``(iv) Receipt of documentary proof of United States 
        citizenship of each applicant to register to vote in elections 
        for Federal office in the State.''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (6)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)(i)(I), by 
                                striking ``(including citizenship)'' 
                                and inserting ``, including the 
                                requirement that the applicant provides 
                                documentary proof of United States 
                                citizenship''; and
                                    (II) by redesignating subparagraph 
                                (B) as subparagraph (C); and
                                    (III) by inserting after 
                                subparagraph (A) the following new 
                                subparagraph:
            ``(B) ask the applicant the question, `Are you a citizen of 
        the United States?' and if the applicant answers in the 
        affirmative require documentary proof of United States 
        citizenship prior to providing the form under subparagraph 
        (C);''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``who are 
                citizens of the United States'' after ``for persons''.
            (4) Criminal penalties.--Section 12(2) of such Act (52 
        U.S.C. 20511(2)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (A);
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                subparagraph (D); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(B) in the case of an officer or employee of the 
                executive branch, providing material assistance to a 
                noncitizen in attempting to register to vote or vote in 
                an election for Federal office;
                    ``(C) registering an applicant to vote in an 
                election for Federal office who fails to present 
                documentary proof of United States citizenship; or''.
            (5) Applicability of requirements to certain states.--
                    (A) In general.--Subsection (b) of section 4 of the 
                National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 
                20503) is amended by striking ``This Act does not apply 
                to a State'' and inserting ``Except with respect to the 
                requirements under section 112(c) and section 113(j) of 
                the Make Elections Great Again Act in the case of a 
                State described in paragraph (2), this Act does not 
                apply to a State''.
                    (B) Permitting states to adopt requirements after 
                enactment.--Section 4 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20503) is 
                amended by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(c) Permitting States to Adopt Certain Requirements After 
Enactment.--Section 112(c) and section 113(j) of the Make Elections 
Great Again Act shall not apply to a State described in subsection 
(b)(2) if the State, by law or regulation, adopts requirements which 
are identical to the requirements under such subsections not later than 
60 days prior to the date of the first election for Federal office 
which is held in the State after the date of the enactment of this 
subsection.''.

SEC. 113. REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT TO REMOVAL OF INELIGIBLE VOTERS 
              FROM OFFICIAL VOTER LIST.

    (a) Affirmative Steps to Maintain Accurate Voter Registration 
Lists.--
            (1) In general.--Each State shall take such affirmative 
        steps as are necessary on an ongoing basis, but in no case less 
        frequently than once every 30 days, to verify the eligibility 
        of registrants on the official list of eligible voters in 
        elections for Federal office in the State through the use of 
        all verification resources available to the State, including 
        through the use of information supplied by the Department of 
        Homeland Security through the Systematic Alien Verification for 
        Entitlements (``SAVE'') system, and, pursuant to the 
        requirement under section 112(a)(4), to remove from the 
        official list of eligible voters in elections for Federal 
        office in the State registrants who are determined to be 
        ineligible voters by reason of--
                    (A) the request of the registrant;
                    (B) criminal conviction or mental incapacity 
                pursuant to State law;
                    (C) the death of the registrant;
                    (D) a change in the residence of the registrant, in 
                accordance with paragraph (2) and subsection (c);
                    (E) the registrant's status as a noncitizen, 
                including on the basis of the immigration adjudication 
                or status for naturalized citizenship of the registrant 
                as provided by the Director of the United States 
                Citizenship and Immigration Services or any other 
                information with respect to citizenship status supplied 
                by the Department of Homeland Security through the 
                Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements 
                (``SAVE'') system that demonstrates a registrant is not 
                a citizen of the United States; or
                    (F) duplicate registrations of a registrant 
                otherwise eligible to vote.
            (2) Use of change-of-address information from postal 
        service.--Any process of a State described under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the State establishing a process under which 
        change-of-address information supplied by the Postal Service 
        through its licensees is used to identify registrants whose 
        addresses may have changed and if it appears from such 
        information provided that a registrant has moved to a different 
        residence address--
                    (A) in the same registrar's jurisdiction in which 
                the registrant is currently registered, the registrar 
                changes the registration records to show the new 
                address and sends the registrant a notice of the change 
                by forwardable mail and a postage prepaid pre-addressed 
                return form by which the registrant may verify or 
                correct the address information; or
                    (B) not in the same registrar's jurisdiction, the 
                registrar uses the notice procedure described in 
                subsection (c)(2) to confirm the change of address.
    (b) Deadline Prior to General Elections for Federal Office.--A 
State shall complete any process under subsection (a) to remove the 
names of voters determined to be ineligible from the official list of 
eligible voters in Federal elections held in the State not later than 
15 days prior to the date established under section 25 of the Revised 
Statutes of the United States (2 U.S.C. 7) for each general election 
for Federal office, except that this subsection shall not be construed 
to preclude--
            (1) the removal of names from official lists of voters at 
        any time on a basis described in paragraph (1)(A), (1)(B), or 
        (1)(E) of subsection (a); or
            (2) the correction of registration records pursuant to this 
        subtitle.
    (c) Procedure for Removal of Names From Voter Rolls by Reason of 
Residence Change.--
            (1) In general.--A State shall remove the name of a 
        registrant from the official list of eligible voters in 
        elections for Federal office when the State becomes aware that 
        the registrant has changed residence through one of the 
        following actions:
                    (A) The registrant confirms in person or in writing 
                that the registrant has changed residence to a place 
                outside the registrar's jurisdiction in which the 
                registrant is registered.
                    (B) An election official determines, from review of 
                postal service records or other available databases or 
                sources of address verification relied upon by the 
                registrar for maintaining an accurate list of eligible 
                voters, that the registrant no longer resides at the 
                address shown in the registration, has failed to 
                respond to a notice described in paragraph (2), or that 
                such notice has been returned as undeliverable.
            (2) Notice described.--A notice is described in this 
        paragraph if it is a postage prepaid and pre-addressed return 
        card, sent by nonforwardable mail, on which the registrant may 
        state his or her current address, together with a notice to the 
        following effect:
                    (A) If the registrant did not change his or her 
                residence, or changed residence but remained in the 
                registrar's jurisdiction, the registrant should return 
                the card not later than the time provided for mail 
                registration under section section 112(a)(1)(B).
                    (B) If the registrant has changed residence to a 
                place outside the registrar's jurisdiction in which the 
                registrant is registered, information concerning how 
                the registrant can continue to be eligible to vote.
            (3) Removal and notice of removal.--If the pre-addressed 
        return card described in paragraph (2) is not returned, or if 
        the notice described in such paragraph is returned as 
        undeliverable--
                    (A) the registrant shall be removed from the 
                official list of eligible voters as described in 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) the registrant shall be notified of such 
                removal by notice sent by forwardable mail.
            (4) Correction of official list of eligible voters.--A 
        voting registrar shall correct an official list of eligible 
        voters in elections for Federal office in accordance with 
        change of residence information obtained in conformance with 
        this subsection.
    (d) Procedure for Voting Following Failure to Return Card.--
            (1) In general.--A registrant who has moved from an address 
        in the area covered by a polling place to an address in the 
        same area shall, notwithstanding failure to notify the 
        registrar of the change of address prior to the date of an 
        election, be permitted to vote at that polling place if the 
        registrant provides documentary proof of the change of address 
        to an election official at that polling place.
            (2) Procedures for registrants who have moved in certain 
        cases.--
                    (A) In general.--A registrant who has moved from an 
                address in the area covered by one polling place to an 
                address in an area covered by a second polling place 
                within the same registrar's jurisdiction and the same 
                congressional district and who has failed to notify the 
                registrar of the change of address prior to the date of 
                an election, at the option of the registrant--
                            (i) shall be permitted to correct the 
                        voting records and vote at the registrant's 
                        former polling place, if the registrant 
                        provides documentary proof of the new address 
                        to an election official at that polling place;
                            (ii) shall be permitted to correct the 
                        voting records and vote at a central location 
                        within the same registrar's jurisdiction 
                        designated by the registrar where a list of 
                        eligible voters is maintained, upon written 
                        affirmation by the registrant of the new 
                        address on a standard form provided by the 
                        registrar at the central location; or
                            (iii) shall be permitted to correct the 
                        voting records for purposes of voting in future 
                        elections at the appropriate polling place for 
                        the current address and, if permitted by State 
                        law, shall be permitted to vote in the present 
                        election, upon confirmation by the registrant 
                        of the new address by such means as are 
                        required by law.
                    (B) Documentary proof of new address.--If State law 
                permits the registrant to vote in the current election 
                upon documentary proof by the registrant of the new 
                address at a polling place described in subparagraph 
                (A)(i) or subparagraph (A)(iii), voting at the other 
                locations described in subparagraph (A) need not be 
                provided as options.
                    (C) Documentary proof of no change in residence.--
                If the registration records indicate that a registrant 
                has moved from an address in the area covered by a 
                polling place, the registrant shall, upon documentary 
                proof by the registrant before an election official at 
                that polling place that the registrant continues to 
                reside at the address previously made known to the 
                registrar, be permitted to vote at that polling place.
    (e) Change of Voting Address Within a Jurisdiction.--In the case of 
a change of address, for voting purposes, of a registrant to another 
address within the same registrar's jurisdiction, the registrar shall 
correct the voting registration list accordingly, and the registrant's 
name may not be removed from the official list of eligible voters by 
reason of such a change of address except as provided in subsection 
(c).
    (f) Special Requirements to Ensure Only Citizens Are Registered to 
Vote.--Any process of a State described under subsection (a)(1) with 
respect to verifying that an individual is a United States citizen 
shall include using information supplied by one or more of the 
following sources:
            (1) The Department of Homeland Security through the 
        Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (``SAVE'') or 
        otherwise.
            (2) The Social Security Administration through the Social 
        Security Number Verification Service, or otherwise.
            (3) State agencies that supply State identification cards 
        or driver's licenses where the agency confirms the United 
        States citizenship status of applicants.
            (4) Other sources, including databases, which provide 
        confirmation of United States citizenship status.
    (g) Removal of Noncitizens From Registration Rolls.--A State shall 
remove an individual who is not a citizen of the United States from the 
official list of eligible voters for elections for Federal office held 
in the State at any time upon receipt of documentation or verified 
information that a registrant is not a United States citizen.
    (h) Public List of Ineligible Voters.--If a voter is deemed 
ineligible under this section, the chief State election official of the 
State concerned shall put the voter's name on a publicly available list 
and send a notice described in subsection (c)(2) and provide the voter 
with an opportunity to cure any defect with respect to the individual's 
eligibility to vote in elections for Federal office in the State.
    (i) Notice Requirement With Respect to Conviction in Federal 
Court.--
            (1) In general.--On the conviction of a person of a felony 
        in a district court of the United States, the United States 
        attorney shall immediately give written notice of the 
        conviction to the chief State election official of the State of 
        the person's residence.
            (2) Notice requirements.--A notice given pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) the name of the offender;
                    (B) the offender's age and residence address;
                    (C) the date of entry of the judgment;
                    (D) a description of the offenses of which the 
                offender was convicted; and
                    (E) the sentence imposed by the court.
            (3) Information from united states attorney.--On request of 
        the chief State election official of a State or other State 
        official with responsibility for determining the effect that a 
        conviction may have on an offender's qualification to vote, the 
        United States attorney shall provide such additional 
        information as the United States attorney may have concerning 
        the offender and the offense of which the offender was 
        convicted.
            (4) Notice of overturned conviction.--If a conviction of 
        which notice was given pursuant to paragraph (1) is overturned, 
        the United States attorney shall give the official to whom the 
        notice was given written notice of the vacation of the 
        judgment.
            (5) Notification by chief state election official.--The 
        chief State election official of a State shall notify the voter 
        registration officials of the local jurisdiction in which an 
        offender resides of the information received under this 
        subsection.
    (j) Public Disclosure of Voter Registration Activities.--
            (1) In general.--Each State shall maintain for at least 2 
        years and shall make available for public inspection in 
        electronic form at a reasonable cost all records concerning the 
        implementation of programs and activities conducted for the 
        purpose of ensuring the accuracy and currency of official lists 
        of eligible voters, except to the extent that such records 
        relate to a declination to register to vote or to the identity 
        of a voter registration agency through which any particular 
        voter is registered.
            (2) Content of records.--The records maintained pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include lists of the names and addresses of 
        all persons to whom notices described in subsection (c)(2) are 
        sent, and information concerning whether or not each such 
        person has responded to the notice as of the date that 
        inspection of the records is made.

SEC. 114. COMPUTERIZED STATEWIDE VOTER REGISTRATION LIST REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Implementation.--Each State, acting through the chief 
        State election official, shall implement, in a uniform and 
        nondiscriminatory manner, a single, uniform, official, 
        centralized, interactive computerized statewide voter 
        registration list defined, maintained, and administered at the 
        State level that contains the name and registration information 
        of every legally registered voter in the State and assigns a 
        unique identifier to each legally registered voter in the State 
        (in this section referred to as the ``computerized list''), and 
        includes the following:
                    (A) The computerized list shall serve as the single 
                system for storing and managing the official list of 
                registered voters throughout the State.
                    (B) The computerized list contains the name and 
                registration information of every legally registered 
                voter in the State.
                    (C) Under the computerized list, a unique 
                identifier is assigned to each legally registered voter 
                in the State.
                    (D) The computerized list shall be coordinated with 
                other agency databases within the State.
                    (E) Any election official in the State, including 
                any local election official, may obtain immediate 
                electronic access to the information contained in the 
                computerized list.
                    (F) All voter registration information obtained by 
                any local election official in the State shall be 
                electronically entered into the computerized list on an 
                expedited basis at the time the information is provided 
                to the local official.
                    (G) The chief State election official shall provide 
                such support as may be required so that local election 
                officials are able to enter information as described in 
                subparagraph (F).
                    (H) The computerized list shall serve as the 
                official voter registration list for the conduct of all 
                elections for Federal office in the State.
            (2) Computerized list maintenance.--
                    (A) In general.--The appropriate State or local 
                election official shall perform list maintenance with 
                respect to the computerized list on a regular basis as 
                follows:
                            (i) If an individual is to be removed from 
                        the computerized list, such individual shall be 
                        removed in accordance with the provisions of 
                        section 112(a)(3) and section 113(a).
                            (ii) For purposes of removing names of 
                        ineligible voters from the official list of 
                        eligible voters--
                                    (I) under section 113(a)(1)(B), the 
                                State shall coordinate the computerized 
                                list with State agency records on 
                                felony status; and
                                    (II) by reason of the death of the 
                                registrant under section 113(a)(1)(C), 
                                the State shall coordinate the 
                                computerized list with State agency 
                                records on death.
                    (B) Conduct.--The list maintenance performed under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be conducted in a manner that 
                ensures that--
                            (i) the name of each registered voter 
                        appears in the computerized list;
                            (ii) only voters who are not registered or 
                        who are not eligible to vote are removed from 
                        the computerized list; and
                            (iii) duplicate names are eliminated from 
                        the computerized list.
            (3) Technological security of computerized list.--The 
        appropriate State or local official shall provide adequate 
        technological security measures to prevent the unauthorized 
        access to the computerized list established under this section.
            (4) Minimum standard for accuracy of state voter 
        registration records.--The State election system shall include 
        provisions to ensure that voter registration records in the 
        State are accurate and are updated regularly, including the 
        following:
                    (A) A system of file maintenance that makes an 
                affirmative effort to remove registrants who are 
                ineligible to vote from the official list of eligible 
                voters. Under such system, consistent with this 
                subtitle, registrants who have not responded to a 
                notice and who have not voted in 2 consecutive general 
                elections for Federal office shall be removed from the 
                official list of eligible voters, except that no 
                registrant may be removed solely by reason of a failure 
                to vote.
                    (B) Safeguards to ensure that eligible voters are 
                not removed in error from the official list of eligible 
                voters.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), each 
        State and jurisdiction shall be required to comply with the 
        requirements of subsection (a) on and after January 1, 2027.
            (2) Waiver.--If a State or jurisdiction certifies to the 
        Commission not later than January 1, 2027, that the State or 
        jurisdiction will not meet the deadline described in paragraph 
        (1) for good cause and includes in the certification the 
        reasons for the failure to meet such deadline, paragraph (1) 
        shall apply to the State or jurisdiction as if the reference in 
        such paragraph to ``January 1, 2027'' were a reference to 
        ``January 1, 2028''.

SEC. 115. REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS WHO REGISTER BY MAIL.

    (a) Contents of Mail Voter Registration Form.--
            (1) In general.--A mail voter registration form developed 
        under section 6 of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 
        (52 U.S.C. 20505)--
                    (A) may require only such identifying information 
                (including the signature of the applicant) and other 
                information (including data relating to previous 
                registration by the applicant), as is necessary to 
                enable the appropriate State election official to 
                assess the eligibility of the applicant and to 
                administer voter registration and other parts of the 
                election process;
                    (B) shall include a statement that--
                            (i) specifies each eligibility requirement 
                        (including citizenship and an explanation of 
                        what is required to present documentary proof 
                        of United States citizenship);
                            (ii) contains an attestation that the 
                        applicant meets each such requirement; and
                            (iii) requires the signature of the 
                        applicant, under penalty of perjury;
                    (C) may not include any requirement for 
                notarization or other formal authentication;
                    (D) shall include a section, for use only by a 
                State or local election official, to record the type of 
                document the applicant presented as documentary proof 
                of United States citizenship, including the date of 
                issuance, the date of expiration (if any), the office 
                which issued the document, and any unique 
                identification number associated with the document; and
                    (E) shall include, in print that is identical to 
                that used in the attestation portion of the 
                application--
                            (i) the information required in 
                        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 112(a)(6);
                            (ii) a statement that, if an applicant 
                        declines to register to vote, the fact that the 
                        applicant has declined to register will remain 
                        confidential and will be used only for voter 
                        registration purposes;
                            (iii) a statement that if an applicant does 
                        register to vote, the office at which the 
                        applicant submits a voter registration 
                        application will remain confidential and will 
                        be used only for voter registration purposes, 
                        other than as evidence in a criminal proceeding 
                        or immigration proceeding brought against an 
                        applicant who attempts to register to vote and 
                        makes a false declaration under penalty of 
                        perjury that the applicant meets the 
                        eligibility requirements to register to vote in 
                        an election for Federal office;
                            (iv) the question ``Are you a citizen of 
                        the United States of America?'' and boxes for 
                        the applicant to check to indicate whether the 
                        applicant is or is not a citizen of the United 
                        States;
                            (v) the question ``Will you be 18 years of 
                        age on or before election day?'' and boxes for 
                        the applicant to check to indicate whether or 
                        not the applicant will be 18 years of age or 
                        older on election day;
                            (vi) the statement ``If you checked `no' in 
                        response to either of these questions, do not 
                        complete this form.'';
                            (vii) the question ``If you checked `yes' 
                        in response to either of those questions, do 
                        you have documentary proof of such response?'' 
                        and boxes for the applicant to check to 
                        indicate whether the applicant does or does not 
                        have documentary proof for any affirmative 
                        response to either question; and
                            (viii) a statement informing the individual 
                        that if the form is submitted by mail and the 
                        individual is registering for the first time, 
                        the appropriate information required under this 
                        section must be submitted with the mail voter 
                        registration form in order to avoid the 
                        additional identification requirements upon 
                        voting for the first time.
            (2) Incomplete forms.--If an applicant for voter 
        registration fails to answer the question included on the mail 
        voter registration form pursuant to paragraph (1)(E)(iv), the 
        registrar shall notify the applicant of the failure and provide 
        the applicant with an opportunity to complete the form in a 
        timely manner to allow for the completion of the registration 
        form prior to the next election for Federal office (subject to 
        State law).
    (b) Ensuring Proof of United States Citizenship.--
            (1) Presenting proof of united states citizenship to 
        election official.--An applicant who submits the mail voter 
        registration application form prescribed by the Election 
        Assistance Commission pursuant to section 9(a)(2) of the 
        National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20508) shall 
        not be registered to vote in an election for Federal office 
        unless--
                    (A) the applicant provides with such application 
                documentary proof of United States citizenship pursuant 
                to the requirements under section 112(c)(1) or presents 
                such documentary proof in person to the office of the 
                appropriate election official not later than the 
                deadline provided by State law for the receipt of a 
                completed voter registration application for the 
                election; or
                    (B) in the case of a State which permits an 
                individual to register to vote in an election for 
                Federal office at a polling place on the day of the 
                election and on any day when voting, including early 
                voting, is permitted for the election, the applicant 
                presents documentary proof of United States citizenship 
                to the appropriate election official at the polling 
                place not later than the date of the election.
            (2) Notification of requirement.--Upon receiving an 
        otherwise completed mail voter registration application form 
        prescribed by the Election Assistance Commission pursuant to 
        section 9(a)(2) of such Act that does not include documentary 
        proof of United States citizenship, the appropriate election 
        official shall transmit a notice to the applicant of the 
        requirement to present documentary proof of United States 
        citizenship under this subsection, and shall include in the 
        notice instructions to enable the applicant to meet the 
        requirement.
            (3) Accessibility.--Each State shall, in consultation with 
        the Election Assistance Commission, ensure that reasonable 
        accommodations are made to allow an individual with a 
        disability who submits the mail voter registration application 
        form prescribed by the Election Assistance Commission pursuant 
        to section 9(a)(2) of such Act to present documentary proof of 
        United States citizenship to the appropriate election official.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prevent the chief State election official of a State from 
requiring documentary proof for purposes of confirming an applicant's 
eligibility to vote in elections for Federal office in the State.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Each State and jurisdiction shall be 
        required to comply with the requirements of this section on and 
        after January 1, 2027, and shall be prepared to receive 
        registration materials submitted by individuals described in 
        paragraph (2) on and after the date described in such 
        subparagraph.
            (2) Applicability with respect to individuals.--The 
        provisions of this section shall apply to any individual who 
        registers to vote on or after January 1, 2027.

SEC. 116. CIVIL ENFORCEMENT AND PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.

    (a) Attorney General.--The Attorney General may bring a civil 
action against any State or jurisdiction in an appropriate United 
States District Court for such declaratory and injunctive relief 
(including a temporary restraining order, a permanent or temporary 
injunction, or other order) as may be necessary to carry out the 
uniform and nondiscriminatory election technology and administration 
requirements under this subtitle.
    (b) Private Right of Action.--
            (1) Notice of violation.--A person who is aggrieved by a 
        violation of this subtitle, including the act of an election 
        official who registers an applicant to vote in an election for 
        Federal office who fails to present documentary proof of United 
        States citizenship, may provide written notice of the violation 
        to the chief State election official of the State involved.
            (2) Civil action.--If the violation is not corrected within 
        90 days after receipt of a notice under paragraph (1), or 
        within 20 days after receipt of the notice if the violation 
        occurred within 120 days before the date of an election for 
        Federal office, the aggrieved person may bring a civil action 
        in an appropriate district court for declaratory or injunctive 
        relief with respect to the violation.
            (3) Waiver of notice requirement in certain cases.--If the 
        violation occurred within 30 days before the date of an 
        election for Federal office, the aggrieved person need not 
        provide notice to the chief election official of the State 
        under paragraph (1) before bringing a civil action under 
        paragraph (2).
            (4) Attorney's fees.--In a civil action under this 
        subsection, the court may allow the prevailing party reasonable 
        attorney fees, including litigation expenses, and costs.

SEC. 117. ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION GUIDANCE.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Election Assistance Commission shall adopt and transmit to the 
chief State election official of each State guidance with respect to 
the implementation of the requirements under the this subtitle.

SEC. 118. INAPPLICABILITY OF PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT.

    Subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly referred to as the 
``Paperwork Reduction Act'') shall not apply with respect to the 
development or modification of voter registration materials under the 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.), as 
amended by this subtitle, including the development or modification of 
any voter registration application forms.

SEC. 119. DUTY OF SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY TO NOTIFY ELECTION 
              OFFICIALS OF NATURALIZATION.

    Upon receiving information that an individual has become a 
naturalized citizen of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall promptly provide notice of such information to the 
appropriate chief election official of the State in which such 
individual is domiciled.

SEC. 120. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING PROVISIONAL BALLOTS.

    Nothing in this subtitle or in any amendment made by this subtitle 
may be construed to supercede, restrict, or otherwise affect the 
ability of an individual to cast a provisional ballot in an election 
for Federal office or to have the ballot counted in the election if the 
individual is verified as a citizen of the United States.

SEC. 121. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING EFFECT ON STATE EXEMPTIONS 
              FROM OTHER FEDERAL LAWS.

    Nothing in this subtitle or in any amendment made by this subtitle 
may be construed to affect the exemption of a State from any 
requirement of any Federal law other than the National Voter 
Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.).

SEC. 122. REQUIRING APPLICANTS FOR MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVER'S LICENSES IN 
              NEW STATE TO INDICATE WHETHER STATE SERVES AS RESIDENCE 
              FOR VOTER REGISTRATION PURPOSES.

    (a) Requirements for Applicants for Licenses.--Section 5(d) of the 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg-3(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Any change'' and inserting ``(1) Any 
        change''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) A State motor vehicle authority shall require each 
individual applying for a motor vehicle driver's license in the State--
            ``(i) to indicate whether the individual resides in another 
        State or resided in another State prior to applying for the 
        license, and, if so, to identify the State involved; and
            ``(ii) to indicate whether the individual intends for the 
        State to serve as the individual's residence for purposes of 
        registering to vote in elections for Federal office.
    ``(B) If pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii) an individual indicates 
to the State motor vehicle authority that the individual intends for 
the State to serve as the individual's residence for purposes of 
registering to vote in elections for Federal office, the authority 
shall notify the motor vehicle authority of the State identified by the 
individual pursuant to subparagraph (A)(i), who shall notify the chief 
State election official of such State that the individual no longer 
intends for that State to serve as the individual's residence for 
purposes of registering to vote in elections for Federal office.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect with respect to elections occurring in 2027 or any 
succeeding year.

SEC. 123. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Chief state election official.--The term ``chief State 
        election official'' with respect to a State means the 
        individual designated by the State under section 10 of the 
        National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20509) to be 
        responsible for coordination of the State's responsibilities 
        under such Act.
            (2) Documentary proof of united states citizenship.--The 
        term ``documentary proof of United States citizenship'' means, 
        with respect to an applicant for voter registration, any of the 
        following:
                    (A) A form of identification issued consistent with 
                the requirements of the REAL ID Act of 2005 that 
                indicates the applicant is a citizen of the United 
                States.
                    (B) A valid United States passport.
                    (C) The applicant's official United States military 
                identification card, together with a United States 
                military record of service showing that the applicant's 
                place of birth was in the United States.
                    (D) A valid government-issued photo identification 
                card issued by a Federal, State, or Tribal government 
                showing that the applicant's place of birth was in the 
                United States.
                    (E) A valid government-issued photo identification 
                card issued by a Federal, State, or Tribal government 
                other than an identification described in paragraphs 
                (1) through (4), but only if presented together with 
                one or more of the following:
                            (i) A certified birth certificate issued by 
                        a State, a unit of local government in a State, 
                        or a Tribal government which--
                                    (I) was issued by the State, unit 
                                of local government, or Tribal 
                                government in which the applicant was 
                                born;
                                    (II) was filed with the office 
                                responsible for keeping vital records 
                                in the State;
                                    (III) includes the full name, date 
                                of birth, and place of birth of the 
                                applicant;
                                    (IV) lists the full names of one or 
                                both of the parents of the applicant;
                                    (V) has the signature of an 
                                individual who is authorized to sign 
                                birth certificates on behalf of the 
                                State, unit of local government, or 
                                Tribal government in which the 
                                applicant was born;
                                    (VI) includes the date that the 
                                certificate was filed with the office 
                                responsible for keeping vital records 
                                in the State; and
                                    (VII) has the seal of the State, 
                                unit of local government, or Tribal 
                                government that issued the birth 
                                certificate.
                            (ii) An extract from a United States 
                        hospital Record of Birth created at the time of 
                        the applicant's birth which indicates that the 
                        applicant's place of birth was in the United 
                        States.
                            (iii) A final adoption decree showing the 
                        applicant's name and that the applicant's place 
                        of birth was in the United States.
                            (iv) A Consular Report of Birth Abroad of a 
                        citizen of the United States or a certification 
                        of the applicant's Report of Birth of a United 
                        States citizen issued by the Secretary of 
                        State.
                            (v) A Naturalization Certificate or 
                        Certificate of Citizenship issued by the 
                        Secretary of Homeland Security or any other 
                        document or method of proof of United States 
                        citizenship issued by the Federal government 
                        pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality 
                        Act.
                            (vi) An American Indian Card issued by the 
                        Department of Homeland Security with the 
                        classification `KIC'.
            (3) Election.--The term ``election'' has the meaning stated 
        in section 301(1) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 
        (2 U.S.C. 431(1)).
            (4) Federal office.--The term ``Federal office'' has the 
        meaning stated in section 301(3) of the Federal Election 
        Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(3)).
            (5) Registrar's jurisdiction.--The term ``registrar's 
        jurisdiction'' means--
                    (A) an incorporated city, town, borough, or other 
                form of municipality;
                    (B) if voter registration is maintained by a 
                county, parish, or other unit of government that 
                governs a larger geographic area than a municipality, 
                the geographic area governed by that unit of 
                government; or
                    (C) if voter registration is maintained on a 
                consolidated basis for more than one municipality or 
                other unit of government by an office that performs all 
                of the functions of a voting registrar, the geographic 
                area of the consolidated municipalities or other 
                geographic units.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the 50 States, 
        the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
        United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
            (7) Voter registration agency.--The term ``voter 
        registration agency'' means an office designated under section 
        7(a)(1) of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 
        U.S.C. 20506(a)(1)) to perform voter registration activities.

    Subtitle C--Information Sharing Agreements With Attorney General

SEC. 131. INFORMATION SHARING AGREEMENTS WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL.

    (a) Requiring States to Enter Into Agreements.--Title IX of the 
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21141 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 907. INFORMATION SHARING AGREEMENTS WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL.

    ``(a) Requirement.--Each State and the Attorney General shall have 
in effect an agreement under which the Attorney General and the State 
shall share information regarding the evidence of potential fraud in 
the administration of elections for Federal office in the State, 
including evidence of voting or attempted voting in elections for 
Federal office by individuals who are not eligible to vote in such 
elections.
    ``(b) Ineligibility of Funds for States Without Agreements.--No 
Federal funds may be used to administer an election for Federal office 
in a State in a fiscal year unless the Attorney General certifies to 
the Commission that the State and the Attorney General have in effect 
an agreement under subsection (a) with respect to the fiscal year.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of such Act is 
amended by adding at the end of the items relating to title IX the 
following:

``Sec. 907. Information sharing agreements with Attorney General.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
with respect to fiscal year 2026 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                     Subtitle D--Election Security

SEC. 141. INDICATION OF CITIZENSHIP ON DRIVER'S LICENSES AND 
              IDENTIFICATION CARDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 202(b) of the Real ID Act of 2005 (49 
U.S.C. 30301 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(10) If the person is a citizen of the United States, a 
        clear and easily distinguishable indication of that 
        citizenship.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
with respect to any driver's license or identification card issued by a 
State on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 142. REQUIREMENT TO NOTIFY STATE ELECTION OFFICIALS OF INDIVIDUALS 
              RECUSED FROM JURY SERVICE ON GROUNDS OF NONCITIZENSHIP.

    (a) In General.--If a United States district court recuses an 
individual from serving on a jury on the grounds that the individual is 
not a citizen of the United States, the court shall transmit a notice 
of the individual's recusal to--
            (1) the chief State election official of the State in which 
        the individual resides; and
            (2) the Director of the United States Citizenship and 
        Immigration Services.
    (b) Verification and Removal From Voter List.--Upon receipt of 
notice of an individual's recusal transmitted pursuant to subsection 
(a), a chief State election official, in consultation with the Director 
of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, shall--
            (1) determine if such individual is a citizen of the United 
        States; and
            (2) in the case that such individual is not a citizen of 
        the United States, remove such individual from the official 
        list of eligible voters.

SEC. 143. REPORTS TO CONGRESS ON FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC THREATS TO 
              ELECTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not earlier than 60 days before the date 
established under section 25 of the Revised Statutes of the United 
States (2 U.S.C. 7) for each general election for Federal office and 
not later than 30 days before such date, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security and the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination 
with the heads of the appropriate Federal entities, shall submit a 
joint report to the appropriate congressional committees and the chief 
State election official of each State on foreign and domestic threats 
to elections in the United States, including physical and cybersecurity 
threats.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on House Administration, the 
                Committee on Homeland Security, the Permanent Select 
                Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Foreign 
                Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Rules and Administration, the 
                Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                Affairs, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
            (2) Appropriate federal entities.--The term ``appropriate 
        Federal entities'' means--
                    (A) the Department of Commerce, including the 
                National Institute of Standards and Technology;
                    (B) the Department of Defense;
                    (C) the Department of Homeland Security, including 
                the component of the Department that reports to the 
                Under Secretary responsible for overseeing critical 
                infrastructure protection, cybersecurity, and other 
                related programs of the Department;
                    (D) the Department of Justice, including the 
                Federal Bureau of Investigation; and
                    (E) the Office of the Director of National 
                Intelligence, the National Security Agency, and such 
                other elements of the intelligence community (as 
                defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 
                1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) as the Director of National 
                Intelligence determines are appropriate.

SEC. 144. PRESERVATION OF ELECTION RECORDS.

    Section 301 of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 (52 U.S.C. 20701) is 
amended by inserting ``(including audit records, ballot cast images, 
canvassing reports, cast vote records, certification records, chain of 
custody records, incident reports, post-election records, 
reconciliation records, return envelopes, tabulation reports, 
technology records, and vote by mail records)'' after ``in such 
election''.

SEC. 145. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Chief state election official.--The term ``chief State 
        election official'' means, with respect to a State, the 
        individual designated by the State under section 10 of the 
        National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20509) to be 
        responsible for coordination of the State's responsibilities 
        under such Act.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 901 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 
        U.S.C. 21141).

     Subtitle E--Prohibition on Federal Agency Political Activities

SEC. 151. PROHIBITING POLITICAL ACTIVITIES IN FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Prohibitions.--
            (1) In general.--Except as specifically authorized by law, 
        a Federal agency may not register an individual to vote in an 
        election for Federal office.
            (2) Agreements with nongovernmental organizations.--None of 
        the funds made available for the salaries and expenses of a 
        Federal agency may be used to solicit or enter into an 
        agreement with a nongovernmental organization to conduct voter 
        registration or voter mobilization activities, including 
        registering voters or providing any person with voter 
        registration materials, absentee or vote-by-mail ballot 
        applications, voting instructions, or candidate-related 
        information, on the property or website of the Federal agency.
            (3) Conforming amendments relating to voter registration 
        agencies.--Section 7 of the National Voter Registration Act of 
        1993 (52 U.S.C. 20506) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(3)(B)(ii), by striking 
                ``Federal and''; and
                    (B) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
            ``(b) Private sector cooperation.--All nongovernmental 
        entities are encouraged, to the greatest extent practicable, to 
        cooperate with the States in carrying out subsection (a).''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section may be construed to prohibit a Federal 
agency from providing information to a State or local election official 
relating to the eligibility of any individual to register to vote in 
elections for Federal office, including information on an individual's 
citizenship status.
    (c) Exception.--The prohibitions under this section shall not apply 
to voter registration activities with respect to absent uniformed 
services voters (as such term is defined in section 107(1) of the 
Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 
20310(1))).
    (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Federal agency'' has 
the meaning given the term ``agency'' in section 3502(1) of title 44, 
United States Code.

                   TITLE II--ELECTION ADMINISTRATION

           Subtitle A--Improving Administration of Elections

SEC. 201. USE OF HAVA FUNDS FOR POST-ELECTION AUDITS OF RESULTS.

    (a) Authorizing Use of Funds.--Section 251(b) of the Help America 
Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21001(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraphs (2) and 
        (3)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2), (3), and (4)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Use of funds for conducting post-election audits of 
        results.--A State may use a requirements payment to conduct a 
        post-election audit of the results of an election for Federal 
        office if the State completes and releases the results of the 
        audit prior to the applicable deadline for filing a challenge 
        to the results of the election.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to payments made for fiscal year 2026 or any 
succeeding fiscal year.

                    Subtitle B--Treatment of Ballots

SEC. 211. REQUIRING PAPER BALLOTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 301(a)(2) of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Paper ballot requirement.--
                    ``(A) Voter-verifiable paper ballots.--
                            ``(i) The voting system shall require the 
                        use of a paper ballot manually marked by the 
                        voter or a paper ballot marked through the use 
                        of a nontabulating ballot marking device or 
                        system, so long as the voter shall have the 
                        option at every in-person voting location to 
                        manually mark a printed ballot that includes 
                        all relevant contests and candidates.
                            ``(ii) The paper ballot shall be marked by 
                        the voter and presented to the voter for 
                        verification before the voter's ballot is 
                        preserved in accordance with subparagraph (B), 
                        and shall be counted manually or by counting 
                        device or read by a ballot tabulation device.
                            ``(iii) The voting system shall provide the 
                        voter with an opportunity to correct any error 
                        on the paper ballot before the permanent voter-
                        verifiable paper ballot is preserved in 
                        accordance with subparagraph (B).
                            ``(iv) The voting system shall not preserve 
                        the voter-verifiable paper ballots in any 
                        manner that makes it possible, at any time 
                        after the ballot has been cast, to associate a 
                        voter with the record of the voter's vote 
                        selections.
                            ``(v) The voting system shall prevent, 
                        through mechanical means or through 
                        independently verified protections, the 
                        modification or addition of vote selections on 
                        a printed or marked ballot at any time after 
                        the voter has been provided an opportunity to 
                        correct errors on the ballot pursuant to clause 
                        (ii).
                    ``(B) Preservation as official record.--The paper 
                ballot required under subparagraph (A) shall constitute 
                the official ballot and shall be preserved and used as 
                the official ballot for purposes of any recount or 
                audit conducted with respect to any election for 
                Federal office in which the voting system is used.
                    ``(C) Manual audit suitability.--Each paper ballot 
                used pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be suitable for 
                a manual audit.
                    ``(D) Effective date.--The requirements of this 
                paragraph shall take effect on the date that is 30 days 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment Clarifying Applicability of Alternative 
Language Accessibility.--Section 301(a)(4) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 
21081(a)(4)) is amended by inserting ``(including the paper ballots 
required under paragraph (2))'' after ``voting system''.

SEC. 212. LIMITATION ON POSSESSION OF MAIL-IN BALLOTS.

    (a) Limitation.--
            (1) In general.--It shall be unlawful for an individual to 
        distribute, order, request, deliver, or possess--
                    (A) any ballot not associated with--
                            (i) such individual;
                            (ii) an immediate family member of such 
                        individual; or
                            (iii) another individual for whom such 
                        individual is a caregiver; and
                    (B) more than 4 mail-in ballots for an election for 
                Federal office at a time.
            (2) Incidental possession excepted.--The limitation under 
        paragraph (1) shall not apply to the incidental possession of 
        mail-in ballots by a postal worker or election official acting 
        within the scope of the official capacity of such postal worker 
        or election official.
            (3) Penalty.--An individual who knowingly receives, 
        accepts, or agrees to receive or accept anything of value, 
        personally or for any other person, in return for distributing, 
        ordering, requesting, delivering, or possessing a mail-in 
        ballot in violation of paragraph (1) shall be fined in an 
        amount not exceeding $25,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 
        years, or both.
    (b) Form Required for Ballot Return.--
            (1) In general.--An individual may not return a mail-in 
        ballot not associated with such individual, unless such 
        individual--
                    (A) presents to an election official acting within 
                the scope of the official capacity of such official a 
                government-issued photo identification of such 
                individual; and
                    (B) provides to such election official, together 
                with such ballot, a completed affidavit described in 
                paragraph (2) that--
                            (i) is signed by the voter with whom the 
                        ballot is associated, or if such voter cannot 
                        write because of a physical handicap or 
                        illiteracy, bears the mark of such voter and 
                        the signature of a witness to the making of the 
                        mark; and
                            (ii) is signed by such individual, or if 
                        such individual cannot write because of a 
                        physical handicap or illiteracy, bears the mark 
                        of such individual and the signature of a 
                        witness to the making of the mark.
            (2) Affidavit described.--The affidavit described in this 
        section is a form that--
                    (A) is prescribed by the Election Assistance 
                Commission; and
                    (B) includes a space for an election official to 
                record the form of identification presented pursuant to 
                paragraph (1)(A).
            (3) Preservation of records.--Each authorization form 
        provided pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) must be preserved for at 
        least 2 years as part of the record of the election, and the 
        county board of voter registration and elections must note the 
        time and date of receipt of the authorization form, the name of 
        the individual providing the authorization form, the 
        relationship of the individual to the voter, and the form of 
        identification presented pursuant to paragraph (1)(A).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Caregiver.--The term ``caregiver'' means an individual 
        who provides frequent and regular medical or health care 
        assistance to a person in a residence, nursing care 
        institution, hospice facility, assisted living center, assisted 
        living facility, assisted living home, or residential care 
        institution.
            (2) Immediate family member.--The term ``immediate family 
        member'' means the spouse, parent, child, grandparent, 
        grandchild, or sibling of the individual or of the spouse of 
        the individual.

SEC. 213. PROHIBITING STATES FROM USING RANKED CHOICE VOTING IN GENERAL 
              ELECTIONS FOR FEDERAL OFFICE.

    (a) Requirement.--Subtitle A of title III of the Help America Vote 
Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 305 and 306 as sections 306 
        and 307, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after section 304 the following new 
        section:

``SEC. 305. PROHIBITING STATES FROM USING CERTAIN VOTING SYSTEMS WITH 
              RESPECT TO A GENERAL ELECTION FOR FEDERAL OFFICE.

    ``A State may not carry out a general election for Federal office 
in the State using a voting system that--
            ``(1) permits a voter to vote for more than one candidate 
        for the same office;
            ``(2) permits a voter to rank multiple candidates for the 
        same office; or
            ``(3) reallocates the vote of a voter from one candidate to 
        another candidate for the same office.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of such Act is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating the items relating to sections 305 and 
        306 as relating to sections 306 and 307, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after the item relating to section 304 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 305. Prohibiting States from using certain voting systems with 
                            respect to a general election for Federal 
                            office.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to Federal elections held on or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 214. ABOLISHING UNIVERSAL VOTE BY MAIL.

    (a) In General.--A State may only provide a mail-in ballot for an 
election for Federal office to a voter upon request of the voter 
submitted electronically or by postal mail using a standardized form 
described in subsection (b).
    (b) Form of Request.--A standardized form described in this 
subsection--
            (1) has been approved for such requests by the appropriate 
        chief State election official; and
            (2) enables the appropriate election official to confirm--
                    (A) the identity of the individual submitting the 
                request;
                    (B) that the individual is validly registered and 
                eligible to vote in the jurisdiction for which the 
                request is submitted; and
                    (C) that the individual resides at the physical 
                address for which the individual is registered to vote 
                (if different than the mailing address where the ballot 
                is requested to be sent).
    (c) Deadline for Submission.--Such request must be submitted and 
received by the appropriate State election official not later than 30 
days before the date of each election for Federal office.
    (d) Exception.--The requirements of subsection (a) shall not apply 
with respect to ballots provided to an overseas voter or absent 
uniformed services voter (as such terms are defined in section 107 of 
the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 
20310)).

SEC. 215. BARCODE TRACKING FOR MAIL-IN BALLOTS.

    (a) In General.--Title 39, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting after chapter 30 the following new chapter:

                      ``CHAPTER 31--ELECTION MAIL

``Sec.
``3101. Trackable election mail.
``Sec. 3101. Trackable election mail
    ``(a) In General.--No entity of government shall furnish a ballot 
envelope for the purpose of being carried or delivered by mail unless 
such envelope--
            ``(1) contains a Postal Service barcode (or successive 
        service or marking) that enables tracking of each individual 
        ballot consistent with parameters that the Postal Service may 
        promulgate by regulation;
            ``(2) satisfies requirements for ballot envelope design 
        that the Postal Service may promulgate by regulation;
            ``(3) satisfies requirements for machineable letters that 
        the Postal Service may promulgate by regulation; and
            ``(4) includes the Official Election Mail Logo (or any 
        successor label that the Postal Service may establish for 
        ballots).
    ``(b) Application.--Subsection (a) does not apply to a Federal 
write-in absentee ballot under section 103 of the Uniformed and 
Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20303).
    ``(c) Information.--Not later than June 1 of each calendar year, 
the Postmaster General shall provide, to the entities described in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1) of subsection (a), the information 
necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection, including 
how to access Postal Service tools to assist in generating the barcode 
or successive marking required by subsection (a)(1).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of chapters for part IV of title 
39, United States Code, is amended by adding after the item relating to 
chapter 30 the following:

``31. Election Mail.........................................    3101''.
    (c) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to any election for Federal office occurring on or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 216. RECEIPT, PROCESSING, AND COUNTING OF ABSENTEE AND MAIL-IN 
              BALLOTS.

    (a) In General.--Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 
U.S.C. 20901 et seq.), as amended by section 214(a), is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 306 and 307 as sections 307 
        and 308, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after section 305 the following new 
        section:

``SEC. 306. RECEIPT, PROCESSING, AND COUNTING OF ABSENTEE AND MAIL-IN 
              BALLOTS.

    ``(a) Deadline for Receipt of Ballots.--
            ``(1) In general.--To be considered validly cast and 
        eligible to be counted in an election for Federal office, an 
        absentee or mail-in ballot must be received by the appropriate 
        election official no later than the time polls close on the 
        date of the election and, in the case of a general election for 
        Federal office, no later than the time polls close on the date 
        established under section 25 of the Revised Statutes of the 
        United States (2 U.S.C. 7) for each general election for 
        Federal office.
            ``(2) Untimely ballot.--No State may accept for tabulation 
        an absentee or mail-in ballot that is received by the 
        appropriate election official following the time polls close on 
        the date of the election.
            ``(3) Exception.--The deadline described in subsection (a) 
        shall not apply with respect to ballots cast by absent 
        uniformed services voter or overseas voters, as defined in 
        section 107 of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee 
        Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20310).
    ``(b) Ballots Processed Upon Receipt.--The chief State election 
official shall ensure that mail-in ballots cast in an election for 
Federal office and received prior to the date of the election shall be 
processed upon receipt (except in the case of a mail-in ballot received 
prior to the date that is 22 days before the date of the election, no 
earlier than the date that is 22 days before the date of the election), 
including--
            ``(1) reviewing the ballots for defects that require 
        curing; and
            `` (2) any other action necessary to prepare the ballots to 
        be counted.
    ``(c) Tabulation of Mail-in Ballots.--The chief State election 
official shall ensure that mail-in ballots in an election for Federal 
office are not counted for the purpose of determining and reporting 
election results before the time polls close on the date of the 
election.
    ``(d) Payments Withheld for Noncompliance.--If the Attorney General 
determines that a State is not in compliance with this section with 
respect to an election for Federal office--
            ``(1) no payment described in section 101(a) may be made to 
        such State; and
            ``(2) such State shall return any such payment made to such 
        State during the period when such State was not in compliance 
        with this section, as determined by the Attorney General.
    ``(e) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
elections for Federal office held in 2027 or any succeeding year.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of such Act, as 
amended by section 214(c), is amended--
            (1) by redesignating the items relating to sections 306 and 
        307 as relating to sections 307 and 308, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after the item relating to section 305 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 306. Receipt, processing, and counting of mail-in ballots.''.
                                 <all>

